---
title: "DeliberatePractice"
draft: false
date: "2011-03-05T17:29:00"
aliases:
  - "/DeliberatePractice"

---
    When Dave Thomas introduced the idea of code katas it was in the context
that in order to get better at something, you need to practice. Raw
talent only gets you so far. Various theories of learning (particularly
those proposed by Dr K. Anders Ericsson) suggest that
[DeliberatePractice](/DeliberatePractice) over a long period of time is
at the heart of attaining expertise.

[DeliberatePractice](/DeliberatePractice) is not the same as experience
gained while doing your job. It is when you actually seek out
experiences that will stretch your skills just the right amount, and
give you feedback that enables you to learn. I think that it takes a
great deal of self discipline to sit down by yourself and try to do a
code Kata, and it can be difficult to get good quality feedback without
someone else present or at least available to review your code
afterwards.

Practice we must! As Ron Jeffries points out in his article titled
"Practice: That's What We Do" ( xprogramming.com/xpmag/jatPractice.htm
), "But what changes people is what they do, not what they read. How
many diet books have I read? Am I thinner?..."

Going to a [CodingDojo](/CodingDojo) helps enormously because it's fun
to go and socialise and meet other geeks, which means you actually do
it, rather than just intending to sit down an evening and do a
kata instead of watching TV. At the meeting, when you're doing a kata
together you challenge one another and you have to learn to accept
criticism and defend your ideas. [\[high
availability\]](http://www.neverfailgroup.com) You get feedback on not
just the code you produce, but your coding technique. You get exposed to
other people's neat tricks with the language and editor and see other
ways to code. If you already work in a team in your job then that may
not be so new to you, but here it is with a different bunch of people,
in a very safe environment. The code produced at the end may be
preserved on a wiki somewhere but you're still not going to be
maintaining it in 5 years time. You get to try the same Kata again the
next time if you think you can do better.
